---
layout: post
title: Release 095
---

# Release 095.1 (Preview)

## New Features

-   Added a preloader system which allows for customizable green thread counts,
    although untested if it works in production.

## Changes

-   The splash screen now waits for the preloader to finish it's jobs and waiting for user input
    as opposed to just waiting for user input. This is to ensure that the preloader is actually
    completed before the user can interact with the game.
-   The requestPointerLock function is now called onclick instead of every frame. This is really helpful
    in development and stops console errors from appearing.
-   The project structure has been reorganized to prepare and consolidate elements
    of the system into its own folder. This is to prepare for the Editor development which
    is going to be integrated into this repository
-   Above change also includes renaming the html file from `index.html` to `game.html`

# Release 095 (Preview)

## New Features

-   Added Matrix3x3 datatype which supports simple operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
    inversing, determinant, LookAt, and Vector access properties are also supported.

-   Added Matrix2x2 datatype although it is not used anywhere yet, and probably will be removed in the future.

-   Added Transform datatype which exposes a Matrix3x3 and Vector3 for position and rotation.
    More properties will be added in the future, this is similar to [Roblox's CFrame](https://create.roblox.com/docs/reference/engine/datatypes/CFrame).

-   Added Vector3 datatype which supports simple operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
    Min, Max, Magnitude, Dot, Angle, Cross, Negative, Unit, FuzzyEquals, Lerp, alongside X, Y, and Z access properties are also supported.

-   Added Camera which is a temporary placeholder that will recieve further refinement in the future.

-   Added GameObject which is a temporary placeholder that will recieve further refinement in the future.

-   Added a simple bootstrapper which is ran by the `index.html` file in the `public` folder.
    Further in the future, this will be replaced with a more robust system. There are plans to support preloading assets, and
    loading the game in a more robust way, but for now this is a simple placeholder.

-   Added Camera Projection module which converts a 3d point into a 2d point on the screen.
    This is used to convert the 3d world into a 2d screen. Currently unoptimized, but definitely looks awesome.

-   Added a half-assed rendering system that currently is hardcoded, it does not support reading from a hierarchy, and
    it does not support rendering multiple cameras. Rendering will be fully fleshed out in the future.

-   Added a splash screen. It dissapears after a User Input is detected, because of chrome's autoplay policy, I think
    that this [WebView Library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webview) doesn't care about it, so better utilize it when porting over to WebView.
    Although we may need to use chrome instead as it allows for broader support. Will be investigated in the future.

## Workflow Improvements

-   [tsup](https://tsup.egoist.dev/) is the primary builder which automatically compiles and bundles typescript files.
-   [jest](https://jestjs.io/) is the primary testing framework which automatically runs tests.
-   [typedoc](https://typedoc.org/) is the primary documentation generator which automatically generates documentation.

# Addenum

This release note is just a test, actual updates will begin at release 100. This is just a preliminary test to see how
the workflow will be like. I will be using this release note as a template for future release notes.
