---
layout: post
title: Release 96
---

# Update 96

## Release 96.3

### Added

-   Added Codecov integration, which allows for a centralized code coverage report
-   Added unit tests on CI, which tests features
-   Added Signal class, which allows communication between objects without coupling
-   Added childAdded/descendantAdded events, which detects whenever a child is added
-   Added Ancestry Viewer, which displays the current hierarchy of the root object

### Addenum

Going forward this version, the repository now follows a modified gitflow workflow,
wherein the `main` branch is the stable branch, `staging` is the staging branch,
and `develop` is the development branch. This is to allow for easier development
and testing of features, and to allow for easier maintenance of the repository.

## Release 96.2

### Changes

-   Preloader cache bug fixed, previously the preloader would not cache the assets
    properly, this is a very subtle bug that was hard to find, but it is now fixed.
-   Experimental IPC system, this is to allow for safer communication between the
    main process and the renderer process. This is still experimental, but it is
    a good start. Even better as this allows us to turn off nodeIntegration in
    the renderer process.

## Release 96.1

This commit mostly refactored the system to partially follow Google's Typescript Style Guide to allow for easier code readability and maintainability.

The following changes were made:

-   All classes are now PascalCase
-   All interfaces are now PascalCase
-   All enums are now PascalCase
-   All types are now PascalCase

-   All constants are now SNAKE_CASE
-   All variables are now camelCase
-   All functions are now camelCase

-   Cleared most boilerplate (by including public in methods and properties)
-   Exports do not use default anymore

### Changes

-   The `Matrix3d.lookAt` method properly calculates the matrix now, previously it
    returned a matrix that were -X, Y, -Z instead of X, Y, Z, which introduced a subtle
    issue with the camera rendering. This has been fixed entirely preventing issues
    arising from this further on.
-   TypeDoc is now added back and is making documentation for the project again due to
    the refactoring of the codebase. Originally this was discontinued due to usage of
    default exports, which is no longer the case.
-   The Q and E keys are now used to lower and raise the camera, respectively.
-   The scroll wheel is now used to zoom in and out of the camera.
-   `TextureCoordinates` has been removed and replaced with `Vector2` for simplicity.
    as originally, it is just a container for 2 numbers. and `Vector2` already does that.
-   Replaced `jest` with `vitest` since it has a vscode extension that allows for easier
    debugging of tests. Wallaby is expensive and I am not spending 135 USD for a license
    for a semi-hobby project. This sucks, but it is what it is.
-   The `tests` folder is gone and is now integrated with the `src` folder via `*.spec.ts`
    files. Having it on a separate folder is just a hassle to navigate and it is not
    really needed since the tests are not compiled into the final build anyway.
-   The engine doesn't run itself anymore, instead it is imported and used by the user.
    This is to allow for easier integration with other projects, and to allow for
    easier testing of the engine itself.

    Also, this allows the engine to be used by anything, and prevents external references
    inside the codebase, which prevents headaches when users don't follow the standards.

-   The game is now what runs the engine, as opposed to the engine being the one
    doing so, read above. This change could add some confusion, but it is for the
    better.
-   COOP and COEP headers are now added to the server to allow more control over the browser.
    This is to allow for a more precise time measurement, among other things I don't know
-   The profiler's `Depth` system now works properly, previously it was a messy system
    that had unintuitive behavior, now it works as intended and finally has documented
    behavior.
-   Better CLI scripts, the `build` script now builds the engine and the game, and the
    `start`, nothing much, but it is a nice DX improvement.
-   Updated dependencies to latest versions (as of December 13, 2023)
-   CJS build is finally gone, this is due to electron finally allowing for ESM imports
    which finally prevented the need for a CJS build. This is a good thing as CJS
    is really legacy, and the build process doesn't have to do two things anymore
    just to allow electron to open.
-   Wow, I forgot to add typescript as a dev dependency, this is now fixed.

## Release 96.0-pre.1 (Preview)

### New Features

-   Currently testing the Electron library for a simplified development workflow.
-   The configuration has been tested for tweaking, further refinement is required

### Changes

-   The default font is now imported as a local asset, instead of being a user font
